GitHub upload using GraphQL (#882)
seek-oss/skuba: docs/development-api/github.md

---

## commitAndPush

Commits and pushes file changes from the local workspace to a specified GitHub branch.

> Commits using this method appear verified on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commits pushed using this method appear verified on GitHub.
```

```typescript
import { GitHub } from 'skuba';

const commitId = await GitHub.commitAndPush({
  dir: './',
  branch: 'some-branch',
  fileChanges: {
    additions: [{ contents: '', path: 'another-path' }],
    deletions: [{ path: 'some-path' }],
  },
  messageHeadline: 'some-commit',
  messageBody: 'extra-body',

>   updateLocal: true, // Updates the local git repository to reflect the new remote branch state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  updateLocal: true, // Updates the local Git repository to reflect the new remote branch state
```

});
```

---

## commitAndPushAllChanges

> Retrieves all file changes from the local git repository using [getChangedFiles], commits and pushes file changes from the local workspace to a specified GitHub branch.
> 
> Commits using this method appear verified on GitHub.
> 
> `undefined` is returned instead of a commit id when there are no changes to push.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves all file changes from the local Git repository using [getChangedFiles],
then commits and pushes the changes to a specified GitHub branch using [commitAndPush](#commitandpush).

Commits pushed using this method appear verified on GitHub.

`undefined` is returned instead of a commit ID when there are no changes to push.
```

```typescript
import { GitHub } from 'skuba';

const commitId = await GitHub.commitAndPushAllChanges({
  dir: './',
  branch: 'some-branch',
  messageHeadline: 'some-commit',
  messageBody: 'extra-body',

>   updateLocal: true, // Updates the local git repository to reflect the new remote branch state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  updateLocal: true, // Updates the local Git repository to reflect the new remote branch state
```

---

## pushFileChanges

Pushes file changes from the local workspace to a specified GitHub branch.

These file changes will appear as verified commits on GitHub.

> Please note: this will not update the local Git repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function is roughly equivalent to `git push`,
but it will not update the local Git repository.
```

Author: I would suggest it's not similar since push would push commits and this would not?

Author: Perhaps maybe avoiding `push` might be wise? Would `upload` make more sense?

Reviewer: Ah yes, I clearly wrote the wrong thing here. Will revert 🙇

```typescript
import { GitHub } from 'skuba';

const commitId = await GitHub.pushFileChanges({
  dir: './',
  branch: 'some-branch',
  fileChanges: {
    additions: [{ contents: '', path: 'another-path' }],
    deletions: [{ path: 'some-path' }],
  },
  messageHeadline: 'some-commit',
  messageBody: 'extra-body',
});
```

---

## pushAllFileChanges

Retrieves all file changes from the local Git repository using [getChangedFiles],
and then pushes the changes to a specified GitHub branch using [pushFileChanges](#pushFileChanges).

These file changes will appear as verified commits on GitHub.

`undefined` is returned instead of a commit ID when there are no changes to push.

> Please note: this will not update the local Git repository by default unless `updateLocal` is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function is roughly equivalent to `git add --all && git commit && git push`,
but it will not update the local Git repository unless `updateLocal` is specified.
```

---

> ## mapChangedFilesToFileChanges

Reviewer: Given this is an I/O operation, I wonder if the verb should here be `read` or `load`?

Author: Yeah I think that makes sense, when I first started this I thought it was going to be a simple map.

> Maps changed files from [getChangedFiles] to GitHub GraphQL [file changes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loads file contents based on [getChangedFiles] metadata and maps them to the GitHub GraphQL [FileChanges] input object.
```

```typescript
import { GitHub } from 'skuba';

const fileChanges = await GitHub.mapChangedFilesToFileChanges([
  { path: 'added-path', state: 'added' },
  { path: 'modified-path', state: 'modified' },
  { path: 'delete-path', state: 'deleted' },
]);
```

---

[check run]: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/checks#runs

> [file changes]: https://docs.github.com/en/graphql/reference/input-objects#filechanges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[filechanges]: https://docs.github.com/en/graphql/reference/input-objects#filechanges
```

---

## readFileChanges

> Takes a list of ChangedFiles from [getChangedFiles], reads them from the file system and maps them to GitHub GraphQL [file changes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Takes a list of `ChangedFiles` from [getChangedFiles],
reads them from the file system,
and maps them to GitHub GraphQL [FileChanges].
```
